[DOP-26065] add script to clean old partitions (#254)
MobileTeleSystems/data-rentgen: docs/reference/database/clean_data_cli.rst

.. _clean-partitions-cli:

CLI for cleaning partitions data
================================
This script is designed to manage PostgreSQL table partitions by providing functionalities to list, detach, remove, or truncate old partitions.

::

>  usage: python3 -m data_rentgen.db.scripts.clean_partitions command truncate --keep-after 2025-01-01

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 usage: python3 -m data_rentgen.db.scripts.clean_partitions truncate --keep-after 2025-01-01
```

The ``clean_partitions.py`` script helps automate the cleanup of old table partitions based on a specified keep-after date. It supports different commands for dry runs, detaching partitions, removing data, and truncating partitions.
It's automatically inditifies partitioned tables and their granularity.

Arguments
~~~~~~~~~

* ``command``: (Optional) Specifies the operation mode.
    * Choices: ``dry_run``, ``detach_partitions``, ``remove_data``, ``truncate``
    * Default: ``dry_run``
    * Description:
        * ``dry_run``: Logs the names of partitions that would be affected by the cleanup without executing any SQL commands.

        * ``detach_partitions``: Generates and executes ``ALTER TABLE ... DETACH PARTITION ...`` commands for identified old partitions. This makes the partitions independent tables but keeps their data.

        * ``remove_data``: First detaches partitions, then generates and executes ``DROP TABLE ...`` commands, permanently deleting the partition tables and their data.

>         * ``truncate``: Generates and executes ``TRUNCATE TABLE ...`` commands, removing all rows from the identified old partition tables but keeping the table structure. **This option is preferred if you have streaming data**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * ``truncate``: Generates and executes ``TRUNCATE TABLE ...`` commands, removing all rows from the identified old partition tables but keeping the table structure. **This option is preferred if you have streaming operations, g.e. Flink or Spark Streaming jobs**.
```
